Adding teacher success design history (#1581)
DFE-Digital/bat-design-history: app/posts/teacher-success/2025-04-25-testing-support-comms-with-trainees.md

---
title: Testing supportive comms with trainee teachers
description: Detailing email comms we sent to trainees to test their engagement with supportive content from Department for Education
date: 2025-04-25
tags:
  - withdrawals
  - trainees
  - emails
  - comms
---

We wanted to test engagement from trainees with supportive email comms from Department for Education.

> [View the full comms testing report](https://educationgovuk.sharepoint.com/:p:/r/sites/TeacherServices/Shared%20Documents/TWD%20-%20Teaching%20Vacancies/TEACHER%20SUCCESS%20SERVICE%20ALPHA%20-%202025/Design%20and%20content/Comms%20testing%20results.pptx?d=w181456ee8022433ab92d68bd2cb6c458&csf=1&web=1&e=35y4Ln).

Reviewer: Can you change this to a PDF and upload it to the design history site (in your post's images directory)? External users cannot access SharePoint, so we try to avoid adding links like this.

Author: Thanks Simon - have tried to add as a PDF but don't think I've done it right!

Reviewer: I've pushed a change to your pull request, so the PDF link should now work. It needed to be a link rather than an image reference.

## Method

Using the 2024/25 trainee data from Register trainee teachers, we used the Mailchimp platform to email all current trainees.

## Testing limitations

At this point in the cycle (March/April), most training is already well under way. This
will likely have an impact on engagement if the need for this information is up front,
in which case, we've missed the boat.​

We're mainly signposting to existing content provided externally – we will not be able
to measure how useful the content is or what issues they're having that led them to
click on support links.

## What we tested

We used a multivariate test with 4 variations:

- non-teaching branded, lesson planning then get support
- non-teaching branded, get support then lesson planning​
- teaching branded, lesson planning then get support​
- teaching branded, get support then lesson planning

We wanted to make sure that the ordering of the content did not have an impact on what users clicked on so we sent different versions of the email where we changed the order.

> We also wanted to test engagement with a teaching branded email vs a more GDS style email.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also wanted to test engagement with a Get Into Teaching-branded email versus a more GOV.UK style email.
```

Reviewer: Whilst the style guide and Notify are products/services/guidance managed by GDS, they are more appropriately referred to as "GOV.UK" (i.e., GOV.UK style guide, GOV.UK Notify, and so on).

> ![screenshot of GDS style email](GDS-style-email.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![screenshot of GOV.UK style email](GDS-style-email.png)
```

![screenshot of teaching branded email](teaching-branded-email.png)

## Overall testing performance

Engagement was good with an average open rate of 54.3% and average click through rate of 5.6%.

## General findings

### September vs January starts

While open rate was actually lower for January starts, click through rate and
engagement with content was higher.​

This supports our hypothesis that trainees earlier on in their placements will benefit
more from access to teaching resources and support.

### Teaching branding

> Using the teaching branding didn't have a significant impact on engagement
> compared to using the GDS styling.​

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the teaching branding didn’t have a significant impact on engagement compared to using the GOV.UK styling.​
```

> The GDS style email had a slightly higher open rate but given we only changed the
> content of the email itself and nothing about the subject line or sender, there's no
> discernible reason for a difference between open rates.​

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GOV.UK style email had a slightly higher open rate, but given we only changed the content of the email itself and nothing about the subject line or sender, there was no discernible reason for a difference between open rates.​
```
